Welcome to the follow-up game.
I'm going to say it three times because it's
that important.
Follow-up, follow-up, follow-up.
Why? Because follow-up is where deals
actually happen.
That's not a pep talk, it's just how the
math works in this business.
Most deals do not close on the first call.
They close on the second call.
The third call. Sometimes the seventh call.
The sellers who eventually sign contracts
are the ones who had somebody stay in touch
with them consistently.
Professionally and with real care.
Not the person who called once and then
vanished.
Here's what's actually going on when a lead
hits your CRM.
That seller is dealing with a lot.
They've probably gotten calls from multiple
investors already.
They're navigating whatever situation pushed
them towards selling in the first place.
Whether that's financial pressure, a divorce,
an inherited property, or just being done
with being a landlord.
They might not be ready to make a decision.
But not ready today does not mean not
interested.
It means the timing hasn't lined up yet.
Or their situation hasn't gotten urgent
enough.
Or they haven't built enough trust with
anyone calling them.
Or they just need more time to sit with it.
Your job is to be the person who's there
when they're ready.
Not the person who tried once and moved on.
The industry data on this is pretty wild.
Most follow-up in real estate investing
stops after a few days.
After one or two attempts.
But most deals close after five or more
touches.
So if you're the person making that fifth or
sixth contact while everybody else quit
after two, you're the one who gets the deal.
It's not complicated. It just takes
discipline.
Here's the follow-up cadence we use at BMH
for active leads.
On the first day, you have your initial call
or conversation.
You log your notes and schedule the
follow-up.
On day two, you send a follow-up text.
Something short and personal, not a mass
blast.
Day four, you make a follow-up call and
reference the previous conversation.
Day seven, you call again and send a text if
they don't answer.
Day 14, follow-up call with a new angle or
new piece of information.
Day 21, send a text or email to check in.
Day 30, another call with a simple, any
changes on your end?
After day 30, you shift to a monthly
cadence.
One touch per month, alternating between
calls and texts for up to six months.
If after six months of consistent follow-up,
there's been absolutely zero engagement.
No answered calls. No returned texts.
No responses at all. You can move the lead
to long-term nurture or market dead.
The first call is all about discovery and
qualification.
Calls to and beyond are different because
you're not starting from scratch anymore.
You're building on a relationship that
already exists, even if it's a thin one.
For the second call, it sounds something
like this.
Hey, this is Andrea with the BMH Group.
We talked a few days ago about your property
at 123 Main Street.
I wanted to follow-up and see if you've had
a chance to think about what we discussed.
How are things going? The key there is
referencing the previous conversation.
It shows them you remember who they are.
For the third call and beyond, you need to
bring something new each time.
Don't just call to check in.
That's lazy and the seller can feel it.
Instead, share something relevant like, I
was looking at some recent sales in your area
and wanted to share what I found.
Or ask about something they mentioned last
time.
You mentioned your brother was coming into
town to help with the property.
Did you get a chance to talk with him about
it?
Every follow-up should have a reason beyond,
are you ready yet?
Now, sellers go silent sometimes.
It happens. They were engaged on the first
call, said they'd think about it, and then
nothing. No answered calls, no returned
texts.
Don't panic and don't write them off.
This is where ghost texts come in, which are
strategically written messages designed to
get a response from someone who's gone
quiet.
You can try a casual check-in.
Hey, it's Andrea from the BMH Group.
Haven't heard from you in a bit.
Just wanted to make sure you're doing okay.
Any updates on the property?
Or try an assumptive approach.
Hi, I wanted to let you know we're still
interested in your property at 123 Main Street.
If the timing isn't right, no worries at
all.
Just let me know and I'll update my notes.
There's also the value add angle.
Hey, I noticed some activity in your
neighborhood.
A few properties have sold recently.
Wanted to see if that changes anything on
your end.
And then there's the simple yes, no, which
is surprisingly effective.
Hi, still thinking about selling the
property at 123 Main Street?
Just a quick yes or no and I'll know how to
help.
You do need to know when to stop, though.
Follow-up should be persistent, not
annoying.
There is a line. If they explicitly say,
stop calling me or remove me from your list,
you respect that immediately.
Mark it in the CRM and stop all contact.
Full stop. If you've had six months of zero
engagement across every channel, move them
to long-term nurture or mark the lead dead.
Everything else, keep following up.
Not right now means follow-up later.
I need to think about it means follow-up in
a few days.
Call me next month means you put it in the
CRM and you call them next month.
People tell you exactly when to call them
back.
Take them at their word.
The biggest challenge with follow-up isn't
knowing what to do.
It's actually doing it consistently every
single day, even when you don't feel like it.
That means at the start of each day, your
follow-up list in Sandra is your number one
priority. Follow-ups happen before new
leads, always.
If you have 30 follow-ups scheduled for
today, you make all 30 attempts.
If you can't reach someone, you leave a
voicemail and send a text.
And you never, ever skip a follow-up because
you've decided in your head that they
probably aren't interested.
You don't know that. The seller hasn't told
you that.
So you make the call.
The person who does their follow-ups every
day without exception will outperform the
person who makes twice as many new calls but
ignores their follow-up list every single
time.
That's not an opinion.
It's what we've seen play out over and over
again.
Your roleplay for this module is a probate
lead in St.
Louis.
It's an inherited house, emotionally complex,
and the seller needs your empathy just as
much as your persistence.
Once you've run the roleplay, meet me in the
next lesson.
We're pulling every script you've learned
into one flow.